Config is a JSON object loaded before kiwi starts

## Loading the config file

Multiple places so that it can integrate with your website or users in different places. Can even be generated by PHP/Ruby/nodejs. Is checked in the following order:

### config.json
Loads the JSON file from `static/config.json`

### Specify a URL location
You can specify the URL to your JSON config file in a meta tag named `kiwiconfig` on the client page (index.html). Example: `<meta name="kiwiconfig" content="http://example.com/path/to/config.json" />`

### JSON string directly in the page
If generating the JSON config yourself then you can include it directly into the client page (index.html) in a script tag named `kiwiconfig`. As an added bonus this will save a HTTP request making it faster to load.
Example:
~~~html
<script name="kiwiconfig">
{"startupScreen": "customServer", "startupOptions": { "server": "irc.freenode.net", "port": 6697, "tls": true, "direct": false, "nick": "" }}
</script>
~~~


## Config options

Config options are put into JSON format using a plain object. Example: `{"option1": "value", "option2": "value"}`

* `windowTitle` ("My IRC network")

  The title of the webpage. This appears in the browser tab and bookmark managers when bookmarked.

* `startupScreen` ("customServer")

  The screen that is first shown. More information on this can be found [[here|startup-screens]]

* `kiwiServer` ("http://example.com/config.json")

  The URL to your kiwi server. More information on this can be found [[here|kiwi-server]]

* `restricted` (`true` or `false`)

  If set to `true`, Kiwi IRC will only be allowed to connect to the network that you specify.

* `themes` (Array / list of available themes)

  The themes listed here will be available in the client. There must be at least one theme here. Example:
  ~~~json
  [
    { "name": "Default", "url": "static/themes/default.css" },
    { "name": "Theme2", "url": "static/themes/theme2.css" },
    { "name": "Other Theme", "url": "http://example.com/theme.css" }
  ]
  ~~~

* `theme` ("default")

  The name of the default theme to use. This name must be in the available themes list.

* `embedly.key` ("embedly API key")

  Kiwi IRC uses the embedly service to show a preview of links directly within the client. If you have an embedly API key to custom the previews or remove its branding, you can enter your API key here.

* `startupOptions` (Object / configuration for the first screen of the client. Eg. the connection screen)

* `startupOptions.server` ("irc.freenode.net")

  This will be the default IRC server the client will connect to. May be left empty to force the user to enter a server.

* `startupOptions.port` (6667)

  This will be the default port for the IRC server the client will connect to. By default it uses 6667, or 6697 if using SSL/TLS.


* `startupOptions.tls` (`true` or `false`)

  If set to `true`, Kiwi IRC will enable SSL/TLS by default for the IRC server connection. If set to `false`, an un-secure plain-text connection will be used.


* `startupOptions.direct` (`true` or `false`)

  Kiwi IRC supports connecting directly to IRC servers that support websockets. Setting this to `true` will connect directly instead of using a Kiwi server. (Note: this may be more unstable depending on the users browser, network, anti virus, proxies, amongst other situations)


* `startupOptions.channel` ("#channel,#channel2")

  This will be the default channel that the client will automatically join.


* `startupOptions.nick` ("a_nick")

  This will be the default nick that the client will use. A `?` character may be used to specify a random number to help reduce conflicting nicks.


* `startupOptions.state_key` ("kiwi-state")

  The state key is the name for the user session. The default is "kiwi-state". Users IRC connections and channels will be remembered in their browser for the next time they open the webpage. If set to an empty string (`""`) then nothing will be remembered.